So, Wolf, that's the very first one.
It's this small canal that appears, called the mesonephric duct.
This Wolffian duct, it descends in us, it will be
taken up between the testicles,
to form the ejaculatory duct,
whereas the Müllerian duct will remain as a vestige below, the prostatic utricle.
Now, in women, it's the opposite.
The Wolffian duct differentiates into Gardner's organ in women.
that is, it's what remains, while the Müllerian duct, by fusion, becomes the uterus
and fallopian tubes in women. The same image we saw earlier, except we still have
the inguinal ligament or the suspensory ligament of the testis
or the gubernaculum ligament. We will
look at the canal here, now we take the green. It gave what we call the
epididymal canal,
the vas deferens.
and the ejaculatory duct.
It comes from this urogenital relationship.
Afterwards, in women, this does not develop.
Mesonephric kidneys, they are larger,
so they create the Müllerian duct.
In men, they don't create it.
The Müllerian duct meets towards the midline,
here like this,
and will actually form what we call the uterus.
And the small organs here, the Gartner's organs,
are the vestige of our ejaculatory duct, it's really
each time oriented towards the base here and
the further we move to the side, the more it will form the uterus, the less
we move away, the more the vestige will be
the prostatic utricle in men and in women it's the parietal peritoneum
posterior which
concentrated this broad ligament
Or we call it, you see, these small ovarian ligaments, or
the round ligaments, etc.
It's really the same tissue, but with different concentrations.
It's the same posterior parietal peritoneum.
And there, we will form the uterus here.
You see?
And in men, there is no such movement.
It just stays like this.
But it's a concentration of peritoneum.
You have the kidney, and above it, the adrenal gland.
You have a capsule here, and it's separated here.
Which means that when you have renal ptosis, you don't have adrenal ptosis.
They are separate.
It's a fascia called Glisson's capsule.
The kidney needs a fatty space.
In very thin women, there is kidney ptosis,
they have few periods and low fertility.
So raising a kidney is to re-energize the kidney for its fertility.
Initially, they are enormous in a small embryo.
Like the liver, it's enormous.
It's like initially, your brain is like that, compared to the trunk.
But these are things that change, you see, afterwards.
What we remember is that the liver has important information on mesonephric kidneys.
This is the first time we see a differentiation in structure between
men and women.
It is actually linked to this development of my glands which are more important and which create the Müllerian
tubercle.
Fifth week, it begins.
You have this system on the side that will develop here.
To restore all the power of the kidney.
The brain will influence the placement of the heart which will put
in place its diaphragmatic divisions.
This liver, the adrenal glands, the
gonads.
The crest, the Müllerian duct, which develops
much stronger, created a pure canal in women that joins to form the
uterus.
In men, it develops a little less, but what remains at the bottom of the Müllerian duct,
is the prostatic utricle.
On top of that, there is testicular descent due to the differential growth rate at the gubernaculum
which slows down and will pull the whole system.
There, that's what interests me to show you,
it's really this easy continuity.
fascial, between the uterus, between the whole part,
let's say, of the fascia, of the skin, of the small
pelvis, you see, it's really, there we can see the uterus well, we can see the
ligaments,
the ovaries, sorry, the peritoneal cavity finally, and there we will take some
forceps
and we will lift the uterus, you see, and we will see that, by looking,
When I pull, so imagine for example a fibroid or a cyst,
and look how everything will change.
Look what happens there, don't forget the continuity finally with the ligaments.
Look, I lift, and look how, afterwards we will pull harder.
Look, you see how it plays.
everywhere, the round ligaments. All
of that is peritoneum in fact. It's a super
intelligent tissue. And look, look what happens. Look at the influence of
a fibroid
for example. How it modifies the whole system behind here. Simply,
by a simple
traction, how it can influence my whole system. Imagine a fibroid.
There are large fibroids, and well, all the cascade that it can have.